h2. OVERVIEW

Eclim is an Eclipse plugin which exposes Eclipse features through a
server interface.  When this server is started, the command line utility
eclim can be used to issue requests to that server.

Eclim can be found at http://eclim.sourceforge.net/.

h2. INSTALLATION

Get the installer for your platform from the Eclim downloads page and
follow those instructions.  After the install procedure, you should have
the eclim and eclimd executables in

<pre>
$ECLIPSE_HOME/eclimd
$ECLIPSE_HOME/plugins/org.eclim_1.4.5/bin/eclim
</pre>

It might be convenient to drop a shellscript like

<pre>
#!/bin/sh
$ECLIPSE_HOME/plugins/org.eclim_1.4.5/bin/eclim $*
</pre>

into your PATH.

h2. USAGE

To start using eclim, first you have to start the eclimd server process.
Here are two possibilities:

  1. Simply execute the eclimd executable.  This will start a headless
     eclipse instance in the background, so you have to do all your work
     in emacs.

  2. Start Eclipse as usual and open the eclimd view, which starts the
     server, too.

             Show View -> Other -> Eclim -> eclimd

Now you can issue commands via eclim.  As a starter, let's see which
projects are in the current workspace.  The output should look like
that:

<pre>
% eclim -command project_list                       
GraBaJa            - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/grabaja
GretlTest          - closed - /home/horn/workspace/GretlTest
JDT                - closed - /home/horn/workspace/JDT
SCLTest            - closed - /home/horn/workspace/SCLTest
eclim              - closed - /home/horn/repos/eclim
greqlscript        - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/greqlscript
gretl              - open   - /home/horn/uni/repos/gretl
jgStreetMap        - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/jgstreetmap
jgralab            - open   - /home/horn/uni/repos/jgralab
jgwnl              - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/jgwnl
rsleditor          - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/rsleditor
sclschema          - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/sclschema
sidiffadapter      - closed - /home/horn/uni/repos/sidiffadapter
swank              - closed - /home/horn/workspace/swank
</pre>

For more commands refer to the eclim docs and source code.
